The objectives that you had in Moscow, new air
routes into Moscow, development of free or
exchange of weather information, and the shuttle
bases, were they accomplished? The exchange of
weather information was by far the most
successful, and some way or another,
whenever this Navy representative, the United
States Navy representative came over they met him
on time and were very cordial and this went well. I
wish everything else went that easy in relation to
the Russians. And we continued throughout the,
until the end of the Japanese war to get all the
weather information we needed from the Russians
and very reliable.
That was successful. The establishment of air
routes wasn't too successful. We never even
approached getting an air route in the northern
Murmask area down to Leningrad and Moscow. Never
even approached that. They wouldn't even talk
about it. Why not, do you think? I don't know. Just
wouldn't do it. Weather-wise, it would have been a
difficult one.
They just didn't want, on the question of air
routes, they just did not want to open up their
country that much and make it that easy for foreign
airplanes and foreign air crews to fly over their
country. I'm sure this is a basic philosophy. They
just didn't want to do it. It's opened up the
country too much. They didn't want that many
foreigners in their country. How about the
southern routes? The southern route from—see, we
had at that time a United States Army organization
in Iran called the Southern Supply Command, I
think that's what it was. Were they British? Yeah.
And pouring Lend-Lease equipment, just pouring
it up through the truck rail routes into southern
Russia.
We weren't successful in establishing an air
transport command route into Moscow at all.
Matter of fact, it was difficult enough even to
establish the required air transport sorties up
to the shuttle bases to resupply them with the
necessary bombs, belly tanks, and maintenance
equipment, and fuel. Fuel, I don't think we had. or
they could provide the fuel. But we weren't
successful there. Now, on the Alcib route. Which
one? Alcib, from Alaska to Siberia, across into
the European front.
See, that's the route that we flew a lot of the
airplanes, actually flew the airplanes through.
They picked them up in Alaska. We tried our best,
and I personally wrote. I figured I had the answer
to it. I wrote a personal study to General Dean, and
the ambassador was very happy to get it, and even
sent it forward to General Arnold, well, the Air
Force back home. And we all agreed it was a way to get
the Russians to start building bases in Siberia
that would take B-17s if we gave them to them. And I
think I even recommended giving them a few because
it would force them to start building bases in
Siberia that would take bombers. And then if they
would build bases to take bombers, then we could
ultimately, if necessary, use their bases to bomb
Japan from the north. Sure. So it was sort of a
leverage that we would do. Well, they wanted the
airplane. So you wanted to fly from Alaska to
Vladivostok? Yeah. And actually, that's the way
they ferried fighter airplanes, a lot of them. As a
matter of fact, most of them. Well, the P-39, most
of them were assembled in Tehran and so on. But we
actually went as far as to, following my plan at
Offord, we actually went as far as to organize a
B-17 unit, which was going to be headed up by a very
controversial old figure, Butch Morgan, a
colonel in the Air Force, quite a character.
He actually made a visit over to Moscow, and we
talked about it in detail. But we didn't request
Russian meetings at that time. And we were going to
organize a unit of B-17s, and he would fly the whole
thing right through to get the B-17s in Russia.
Well, they went along with us until we got it up to
Alaska. Then they just stopped on the negotiation
flat and said, well, look, we'll take the
airplane. They didn't want any aircraft. And then
as a result, we turned them down. We didn't get any
aircraft. And that was my recommendation. So they
didn't want any American to land in Vladivostok?
That was the problem? They didn't want any
American flying into Russia, transporting
aircraft. Their fighter pilots came down to
Tehran and picked up a P-39 and bombed into Russia.
We checked them out right there on the base in
Tehran, and they flew into Russia. Or they came to
Alaska. Or they came to Alaska and flew there. And
air transport-wise, there was never an air
transport aircraft, an ATC airplane per se, that
ever flew into Moscow from Murmansk, Alaska, or
Tehran. So that objective, in effect, we didn't
achieve. On the shuttle bases, as I've told you, we
developed those. And it turned out to be
operational.
To what extent it impacted the end of the war, or
accelerated the end of the war, slowed the
fighting down, or impressed the Germans, I'm not
sure. But it served to make us work closer with the
Russians and vice versa.
It gave us more of an insight, let's say
intelligence-wise, into the Red Army and the Red
Air Force and their thinking, their war planning,
operations. By the same token, it gave them a
better insight into our strategic bomber
operations and our people, our crews, our
equipment. I think from a standpoint of maybe
impressing each other, it was successful. From a
standpoint of tactical applications and
operations, the Red Army was advancing so far, so
fast anyhow, into Germany from the east that It
wasn't really absolutely necessary. I think it
was more of a political strategic coordination
plan than a tactical requirement.
I learned a lot from it, and my tour in Russia. I
wouldn't take anything in the world for that.
Yeah, let's talk about, sort of summarize your
tour. Is there any other specifics that we should
talk about as far as your tour in Russia? Before we
summarize it, let me think a moment. Maybe
I ought to bring one thing up. And if I'm not
mistaken, I think I talked openly with the
Ambassador, and certainly with General Dean
about this several times, is the visits of vets, if
you will, to Russia. During a time we were over
there, to see certain things like,
I forget the name of the industrial giant, either
General Motors or somebody that was brought on
duty in OPA. Office of Price Administration.
Right. During the war, or no, production, some job
in production. It was some industrial titan that
was brought on duty aboard industrial
planning, he came over to Russia. It was the head of
some big corporation, either General Motors or
General Electric, something like that. I forget
who he was. Anyhow, he knew General Ambassador
Herman was a friend.
And, of course, he made arrangements for his visit
to certain factories in Russia. And Ambassador
Harriman, of course, usually received these bips
first, meets them, you know, depends on what their
stature is and how much time he gives them, and who
escorts them in the field. I never escorted any of
the Soviet-type military types like I was telling
about General Cannon's visit. But
the comments I want to make, in general,
These visitors would come, and they'd go out in the
field, and then, of course, they'd come back. And
before they left, most of them, I don't care really
what their rank was, when they came back to leave,
Ambassador Herman was interested in hearing
their comments, particularly the high-level
ones, you know. They'd go to conference even. But
generally speaking, the Visitors on these trips
got the wrong impression of Russia. No kidding.
Yes, generally speaking, I'm saying. Now, this is
discussion that Ambassador Herman a few times,
and General Dean on several occasions, and I
personally talk, you know, officially at
meetings, and then sometimes just over coffee,
you know, after dinner. Generally speaking, they
were given the wrong impression They didn't
realize that for their trip and what they saw was
pre-planned to the very pencils on the table
by the Russians for these visitors. It was
arranged on a basis to show the visitor what Russia
wanted him to see based on what Russians wanted to
impress him with and get out of him what they wanted
the most without any due regard on whatsoever of
what the visitor's purpose was. Let's say if he
wanted to see how our supplies were used in Russia,
that was not the Russian objective at all. Their
objective was to show him the need for more
supplies and to show him maybe we weren't getting
supplies. I mean that they weren't getting
supplies. The Russians staged the whole thing.
That's a good word, staged the whole thing. And I
don't think the visitor realized this. They'd
come back and say, gee, I saw things over here. He
says, you realize what they've got over here? Have
you ever seen this? And at times, you know, it would
take us to task. I guess they came back with a more
positive approach that
this is the greatest outfit in the world and they
need our help and they're doing more than you think
they're doing and maybe you folks are being too
negative here in the mission. This is the general
impression we got.
I distinctly remember this. In other words, the
guy that came over there and was shown a staged
review of Russia left and didn't know what the hell
he was
I distinctly remember when I first went to Russia,
I met Air Force Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, who I
was in effect to replace. He was out of shape. See,
we were making a bigger organization, a military
mission. And I remember meeting him on the way over
in England, and he and I sat down one night just to
converse with one another. And I distinctly
remember this. I, a new man, going to Russia, had a
complete new approach you know and I was
optimistic and looking forward to it and here I was
talking to a very disgruntled
frustrated
man that was tickled to death to get out of Russia
and leave his job and was fed up with the whole thing
and in other words was a very negative person and I
remember thinking well no wonder were having
problems dealing with the Russians. I tried Bond
to do better than this. And in six months, I was
almost the same as he was. So this, I just mentioned
this as a parallel to what I'm saying about the
visitor who goes to Russia. And in 13 months, and
you left Russia, were you as negative as that
lieutenant colonel? Oh, yeah.
And... I guess I spoke it more freely and showed it
more freely than I, here I was only a colonel, I'm
sure General Dean, of course he stayed there
longer, but ultimately, you know, he wrote his
book, The Strange Alliance, and he reflected the
feelings.
I remember after six months, I was talking to my
army officer, and I remember distinctly saying,
Dut, I said, we're never going to be able to do
business with these people. I said, I practically
give up. I'm through. What did he say? He felt the
same way. But of course, when I said I'm through, I
didn't mean it that way. And we both agreed. But we
didn't give up. We said, we just have to keep trying
our best and find ways to be more communicative
with them. it's, and I still say it, it's
difficult, difficult to do business with a
Russian hierarchy. Now, were you dismissed from
that job or replaced because your tour of duty was a
certain time length, or did you request, how did
you leave? In effect, my tour of duty was over. It
was generally felt that I'd be over there for about
a year. And I think, matter of fact, that's about
the way General Arnold indicated, that you'd be
over there about a year, never bring you back home.
And of course, one of the objectives was, since we
hadn't set up the mission, is get a chance to train
as many Air Force officers as possible in Russia.
And that's one way to get me back and get another
colonel over there. No. And I admit, I was ready to
come home. This may have shown in my frustration,
but I never, matter of fact, I got very good fishing
reports from everybody, and Mr. Harriman hated
seeing me go. We, Mr. Harriman and I sincerely had a
great mutual respect for one another. We got along
great. What did he say to you when you left? Did you
have a meeting with him? Well, the last time I saw
him was when we landed at National Airport. Oh, so
you brought him back? No, we came back. I left my
airplane over there. Another crew was signed, and
we came back from...
I think we came down to Cairo in my airplane and left
it there.
Yeah, and then from there we rode on a C-54 type air
transport command, regular type airport, but
especially chartered for him with no other
passengers, just him and me and Kathy and, oh,
maybe one or two other guys. Then we landed at,
eventually landed at National Airport in
Washington, D.C., and that's where Chip Boland
brought my wife out to meet me, and I shook hands
with him, and him and Kathy both, and I think I put
one around Kathy, you know, kiss her goodbye. We
learned to know each other very well, very close. I
shook hands with the ambassador and told him how
much I, it was a, not real emotional, I hated to say
goodbye to him, because I liked him, and I felt he
felt the same way. He shook hands, and what a great
guy, and what a grand thing you've done, Troy, and
good luck to you, you're really going to go places
and all that type of stuff. And I think that's about
the last time I saw him. I ran across him a couple of
times later in my career. A funny thing, I ran
across him in Udorn, Thailand in 1967 when he was on
a mission with Hubert Humphrey, a whole group of
politicians, congressmen and all. Somehow or
another he got a mission to go to Vientiane, Laos.
And then he came back to Udorn to refuel I naturally
was out there to meet all of the VIPs. All of a
sudden, I saw him walking across. He saw me about
the same time. So it was quite a reunion for a few
minutes. What did you say to him? What did you say to
him? Oh, gee, you know, gee, Mr. Ambassador, still
Mr. Ambassador. Just like I, you know, left him a
few days before, and great to see you and all. He
said, I didn't hear you, Charlie. I said, what are
you doing? How do you like it and all that stuff? And
then, you know, quickly, he said, hey, come on, I
want you to meet Hubert. He took me over to
introduce me to him. Was he Vice President then or
not? Yes. I guess so, yeah. And he introduced me to
him. What did you think of him? Oh, I mean, he liked
him. He was a very delightful person. Nice. Here he
was talking to an Air Force Major General on the
spot.
I liked him. Of course, didn't know anything about
him. It was a happy meeting, you know. He was
smiling and shaking hands and all. And the whole
area just covered with senators and
representatives, none of whom I even cared about
meeting at that time, except, of course,
Ambassador Herm. We sat and talked a little. I
briefed, you know, generally talked about what we
were doing over there and how we were doing it all.
That must have been a thrill to see him now. Oh,
yeah. He looked older. Yeah. He looked older, and
of course he was. 20 years older, over 25 years old.
They still had that little hunk in his back, but
still had the gracious smile and the air of the
diplomat about it. Okay, are we done with Moscow?
Yeah,
I think so. How would you like to summarize that?
One of the greatest experiences I think I've ever
had in my life. It no doubt had an impact on my
feelings about the world situation that probably
are primary to all of my basic philosophy about
many things in the world. Economic, political,
military, particularly military.
philosophical, if you will, generally speaking,
psychologically. I guess it's basic to a lot of my
thinking about many of the problems in the world.
There's no doubt in my mind about what has happened
interdependence-wise between nations. I
learned this in subsequent ten years working with
TI, the Worldwide Selling of Munitions and
Armament, a multinational corporation sitting
in management meetings.
In particular, the current communications
capability and air transport operations in the
nation, no longer can one nation live by itself.
There's got to be interdependence. Allah, for
instance, now we're getting in bed with China.
Great. You know, it's inevitable. But what about
Russia? You see, there's, why not? Well, why not?
It's obvious. It's the ideology of communism. I
feel very strongly about this. Why do you think
that the communist Chinese can improve relations
with us and seem to get along with us a little bit
better, and why can't the communist Russians?
Well, I ask rhetorically. What's the difference
in Chinese communism versus Russian so-called
communism? China has an objective.
They really fear... hate Russia at the same time.
They have reason to get in bed with us. They don't
have the armed might that the Russians have. They
have reason to get in bed with us. I predicted in a
file paper I wrote for TI when I left that we will
sell arms and arm China. And I wrote that in 1975.
People looked at me and doubted me. We're just
before doing it right now.
I kind of agree with China that it's inevitable
those two thieves will eventually fight one
another. And if they do, it's got to be worldwide.
There's no way that those two would start fighting
one another, and it would not spread worldwide.
OK, let's go to your next assignment. You had two
short questions. Not short, but you had one short
assignment, October 1944 to January 1945, when
you came back in Washington, D.C., and this looks
like a Pentagon. Oh, yeah. Tell me about this. What
was your title? Briefly,
I think they put me in the...
I think they put me in a training division under
operations and training and determining what to
do with me with my Russian experience in
intelligence. They wanted to keep me there for a
while. I think I spent really most of the time just
going around briefing key generals on my
experiences in Moscow and giving them
impressions of my feelings about the Russian
combat capability. And then I I think after that, I
began to get, you know, look, I'm wasting my time,
give me a job. You were in the special study group
there. So then in January 1945, we remained all of
1945 in the operations of the Second Air Force in
Colorado. Where was that in Colorado? Well, like I
say, I got to feeling I wasn't doing anything, and
of course the Pentagon, it's frustrating doing it
itself, and I finally talked them into letting me
go out to 2nd Air Force. 2nd Air Force of Colorado
Springs, and it was an organization oriented
primarily to the training and converting of B-17
crews into B-29 crews, and reintroducing our
effort in strategic bombing to the bigger ship,
and also to Far East Japan, versus the European
war, which we knew was lying down. Did you at this
time, you had not been in combat. Now, you'd been
flying, of course, all the time, but you hadn't
been in combat since 1941, and here it is 1945. Are
you eager to get back in combat? Well, that's one of
the reasons. I mean, 1942. So 1942 is the last time
you were in combat, not 1941. So are you eager to get
back in combat? Yes, that's one of the reasons I
want to go to Colorado, because part of it has a 72nd
Fighter Wing under it, And there was hardly
anybody on the so-called bomber-oriented staff
of Second Air Force, if you will. And General R.B.
Williams was commander of Second Air Force at that
time, and he was one of the original B-17
lieutenants in the second bomb group when I went to
Langley Field on my first site where I first met
him, and we grew very close. And he knew me
personally with my bomber experience. And, of
course, he'd heard about me in the Flying Tigers.
So he was delighted to get me, and he made me the
assistant D.O. under Brooke Allen, who was
oriented primarily to bombers. So he brought some
fighter experience into his headquarters.
because he had the 72nd Fighter Wing under him, and
we were training fighter crews. So he was glad to
get me, and I was delighted, of course. So I looked
forward to that, and that's one reason I went out
there. And I had ideas of, well, I'll get back into
the fighter business now, and then I'll get me
another gun and go back overseas. And fight the
Japanese again. Right. But I wasn't sure how long
that Japanese war was going to last. Nobody was.
Okay, how successful was the training and the
shift over to the B-29? I oriented my efforts
primarily to fighters. Okay, and what fighters
were you training? What airplane? It was the, well
it had the primarily orienting the guys to the P-51
and the P-47.
And I think they still had a few old P-40 units that
had to convert. We were training combat crews.
That's what we were doing for replacement pilots.
And fighter gunnery was one of the main things that
I started pushing. And I think we developed a
fighter gunnery base in Matagorda Island, which I
was very happy about because I remember, back in my
experience, I hadn't been trained in fighter
gunnery. And I needed it. And I wanted to be sure
that the modern Pollock that we were putting out
had fighter gunnery. We turned out to be, we have
better fighter gunnery records than the 3rd Air
Force, which was the other fighter train base in
Florida. I was happy about that. And it got along
well. So you improved their accuracy at that time.
Oh, yeah. And their capability to shoot down
fighters. How'd you do that? How'd you train them
to be gunners? Well, in actual missions where they
would fly against fighter sleeves drawn with
another aircraft down at Matagorda Island, the
gunnery range, you know, way north of the coast, a
plane would pull a sleeve, and then they'd make a
fighter pass it at the sleeve and actually bring
the sleeve back down and count the holes in it. And,
of course, we improved the equipment we had in the
airplane. We had range automatic range setters in
the aiming mechanism for the aircraft. Did you
have radar by now in these airplanes? No, not at
that time. How were the radio systems? You were
complaining about the radios before. Well, see
that was the AVG airplanes. We had the radios in
aircraft were fine. Matter of fact, P-50, I was
ticked, I flew, I checked out and flew an early P-51
called the A-37, and I'd visit a place where we
still had some of the old P-40s, and the guy, the
fighter boys were tickled to death to see my
airplane because it looked to them like a P-51. I
enjoyed that, that was a good tour. And you were
with your wife and family?
Let me see. What after that? Well, let me ask you. Of
course, you were there when the war ended in Europe
in May of 1945, and again when the war ended in the
Pacific in August and September of 1945. What were
your feelings then? By the way, isn't that the same
year that Roosevelt died? Yes. Yeah. I remember
that. Roosevelt died April 12th. Let me tell you
about that. We
were in a staff meeting in 2nd Air Force
Headquarters.
Just a daily staff meeting. I forget what day it
was, but I remember we were about ready to break up,
and here come crashing through the door one of
Brooke Allen's aides or some captain and so forth,
and his hand is teletyped to Brooke Allen. His
comments, oh, no, Jesus, a song. He said, the
president died. God, we all were just spelled,
just struck, astounded. And then we looked at the
wire and all, and just announced the death of the
president. And we were just dumbfounded. I never
will forget that. It's one of those times in your
life, you know, that you're just something really
strikes you and hits you. And I never will forget
that. What were the feelings on base? Oh, just
terrible regret and remorse and, Lord, how we pick
up and continue with this thing, you know. It was
really a shocker.
A month after that, Germany was defeated. And do
you remember your feelings finally when they
signed this render?
No, I don't remember. I think it was sort of a
foregone fact that we didn't know. What about the
atomic bomb? That now was another deal that we were
amazed at. And critically, I had no idea of such a
thing at the time. So, and you might say that was the
opposite feeling about when Roosevelt died.
Goodness, boy, we ain't no, this thing, the
Japanese gotta give up. And,
well this was something new, and you know, like me,
something I never heard of before. Well, who did
hear of it before? You know, you can change the
course of physics, but again, Boy, we've got it
now. This thing will be over. Relief, pride. Of
course, later on, many people, Americans, were
upset that we'd used this weapon on other humans.
What were your feelings? I had no feeling like that
whatsoever.
No telling how many American boys this saved, no
telling how many. I have no regret whatsoever to
this review. Plus the fact that I think, as a matter
of fact, there was some pluses for it. Look what we
learned from this. Look how devastating this can
be. No wonder I feel that there's just no person in
his right mind can start a nuclear war. Nobody can
win it. It's just unthinkable. And lo and behold,
here now you begin to hear both the other side and
our side think that maybe there is a thinkable
nuclear war. And you know, I know a little bit about
the development of the small nukes, tactical
nukes and so forth, but once that starts, I've been
in exercises where I commanded the Air Force
components in an exercise, Desert Strike, for
instance, which was laid on for the express
purpose of starting a conventional war and having
the capability of my fighters with nuclear bombs
on them to try to experiment with two forces
fighting one another and how would it escalate
into a nuclear war. And it took about 24 hours for it
to escalate, where we started using a nuclear
bomb. Of course, we had guys playing as the
president, you know, and the civilian forces
above. But
again, the dropping of that bomb,
boy, I don't criticize Truman one bit. I don't
criticize him one bit. We are finally done with war
in September of 1945.
What were your feelings toward a future career in
the military? Did you ever consider maybe You'd
want to get out of the military. You still were a
reserve officer, or did you want to stay in, or just
what were your feelings? Well, by this time, not
that time, I was still a reserve officer. I was a
reserve colonel.
No, I was a dedicated career officer. I didn't even
think about getting out of the service. I just
wondered, my thoughts, well, what it be now.
We'll shrink our Air Force and there'll be a lot of
people getting out and we'll be pulling people
back home and we'll be closing bases.
Where will I go? What do I want to do? What job do I
want?
And are we going to close up this thing too fast?
What are you going to do?
So, I had no feeling about getting out of the
service at all. It didn't sound like you were very
bright though about your future. No, I began to
think, you know, well, Now, we're going to reduce
the forces also, and probably the number of
generals required would be less, and I began to
wonder, well, would I be promoted? And what job
would be good for the purpose of my career? And I
began to think about that.
But I still wanted to be in the Air Force. I loved it.
Okay. So you left in December 1945, Colorado, and
then from January 1946 to December 1946,
you went to Washington, D.C., headquarters of the
Army Air Forces. Tell me about that. Was that to
what you call?
Oh, yeah. General Caldwell. What was your title,
Darryl? I was head of the training branch. Oh,
I remember, yeah, the first thing that hit me up
there was we had just begun to, we got the first
P-80s, the jet aircraft, and it organized a group
of them and I recall now that's one job I loved
ahead, but I didn't have a chance to, I just didn't
get that job to get checked out in the P-80 and take
over that first group. But now in the training
branch, I've got to think about, well, how are we
going to train people to fly this airplane? I've
got to think of my training days down in Florida in
AFSAT, you know, Air Force Group Flight Attack. So
I have made it to go to paper that we've got to start a
jet flying school someplace. And that's what
generated the first jet flying school someplace
in Texas out there. But we got airplanes committed
to that base for jet flying. And of course, it was
what we called a T-Bird, T-33. But the first P-80s,
there was a squadron were allocated to a squad, and
I forget where it was, but I remember Bruce
Holloway being in on that deal, and then they were
taking these airplanes, you know, they took them
to Europe, to show them to people. In other words,
the Air Force was upgrading itself to jet
aircraft. This was a new age. Oh, yeah, I bet you
were excited about that. Oh, yes, and that's, at
least I was in on the training part of it. Yeah. So I
was instrumental in getting the first training
base set up for jet aircraft. Did you ever get to fly
one? Subsequently, I did, yeah. But you wanted,
you would have liked to command that first. Oh,
goodness, everybody in the Air Force did. I bet. So
there's a lot of competition there for that job.
Oh, yeah. You know, there were guys in the Air Force
that had many more victories than I. I was one of the
biggest aces, and some of them are still fresh off a
combat, you know, and like you say, I hadn't been
flying I hadn't even been flying combat aircraft
since 42. So I felt a little bit unqualified to
raise my hand and say, I want that job. But I got a lot
of satisfaction out of it. At least in the
Pentagon, to get something generated and done,
and then sit back and say, you know that you've done
it? Boy, that's something, the Pentagon. Was it
hectic in the Pentagon? These were, this was the
big year of demobilization, 1946. Everybody, we
went from 12 million man armed forces down to a
million and a half in a year and a half, from 45 to 47.
It's wrecked. Terrific military machine. It's
wrecked. But rightfully so, I guess, at that time.
So was it hectic in the Pentagon? Was it hectic in
the Pentagon? Well, yes, but not at the tense. pace
that we had during the war. You didn't have the
urgency of everything. At least we began to relax a
little. It wasn't as frustrating and hectic as
usual. Probably a little bit more enjoyable than
usual.
And what would you consider your accomplishment
during that year, getting this training base set
up? than Ed Vance's typical boring staff job.
I think that's when, yes, that's when I began to,
the Air University The birth of the Air University
was just about to happen. Air War College? Air War
College. And schooling and education began to...
We had a branch in the train division called that.
And that's where I began, you know, in staff
meetings, I'd listen to them talk about, well,
we've got to do this, do that. And then out of that
blossomed, you know, education and training. And
the Air Force Institute of Technology, where we
want Air Force officers to be, all of them to have
college degrees. And then that old urgency came up
again, I remember now distinctly. Gee, maybe I'll
get in on this program and get my degree. And that's
where, really, the basic,
being right in the Pentagon, fortunately, I was
right at the source of the organization of the
program for allowing officers, promptly
qualified and deserving, to go to a college of
their own choice for at least two years towards
getting a degree. And that's how I got into the
program to go to Texas A&M. Why did you choose Texas
A&M? I always wanted to go to Texas A&M. Remember me
telling you why I chose Texas A&M? It had to be Texas
A&M. And when I went down there it was about, I think
it was six weeks more with me that first year I went
down there. And today, I thank the Air Force for
that. It was the greatest thing they ever did. In
January 1947, then, you arrived at Texas A&M. But
before we get to that, I want to ask you a question.
During this time, 1946, 1947, of course, there was
considerable discussion about separating the
Air Force from the Army and making a separate and
equal branch. Oh, yeah. What was your opinion on
that? Oh, I definitely was for that. There was no
doubt in my mind that the air power was what won the
war and then here come the atomic bomb and
goodnight. This stopped a complete nation of war.
Just a bomber with a bomb in it.
It had to be a separate power and I was all for that.
Sure enough, I think it was Act of 47 when the
Defense Department, and that's where, by the way,
I eventually got my regular permission to, by the
way. Okay, how did that come about, getting your
regular commission? Well, I was at the... Because
they didn't take everybody. No, well, my career
was outstanding. I was in fighter race and had
combat experience and was in mission to Moscow and
Russia, and I was well-qualified. no doubt, and
met the requirements for a full regular
commission of the colonel in the Air Force. So they
gave you a permanent? I think a permanent colonel.
I bet you that made you happy. Oh, yeah. Well, you
see, finally I reached that objective, too, that I
had when I went to Flying Tigers in 1941. Here I got
my regular commission finally. It took me six
years, but I did it. I think we're ready to start
here at Texas A&M. Do you want to take a break? Yeah,
let's take a
break. Now we can continue and discuss your two
years and five months getting a degree at Texas
A&M. Now let's put on tape, like we were talking
over lunch. Let's put on tape. How did the
university ever let you go to school on a four year
program and accomplish this in two years and five
months? Well, Terry, the whole program was a
result of the study of the Air Force by the Air Force
Institute of Technology to try to upgrade the
education of all the regular Air Force officers.
in particular those who hadn't had a college
degree. The objective was that they'd love,
ideally, to also have a college degree. And they
met the criteria, so they approved it, but they
could not afford to allow more than two years. This
oriented primarily to a two-year college man,
give him another two years so he'd have a degree.
The objective of trying to give a man four years to
go to college was a little bit unreasonable, but
they'd at least give a person that was properly
qualified and obviously properly motivated,
give him a chance to have at least two years of
college. It would still improve his education. So
they allowed me to go, and when they approved it,
they didn't assume I would get a degree. They just
assumed I'd end up with two years of college. Upon
reporting to I had the objective of an electrical
engineering degree. And upon reporting to the
school and talking with the proper officials, I
told them I wanted to get an electrical
engineering degree.